For loading pages, you learned that you can load pages with help of push or pushNamed. When you use
pushNamed,
you need to register the page, the route for that page in the main.dart file, when you use push, you create
the route on the fly with the MaterialPageRoute class.
Now as I just said, for pushNamed you have to set up this routes table here in the main.dart file and
depending on the kind of app you're building, you could even have routes which you don't know in advance
because they're generated in a dynamic way, so you can't set up a route name here or you just want to have
a fallback to be safe that if some strange navigation occurs, you can still show something on the screen
and for that, Flutter gives you two important methods here in main.dart.
One is onGenerateRoute which takes a function and one is onUnknownRoute.
Now onGenerateRoute takes a function which gives you some route settings, so some information about
the route, like the argument, the arguments for example and the function you pass to onGenerateRoute
should also return a route.
So here, you should return a MaterialPageRoute for example where you then define a builder, which receives
a context automatically, which returns the categories screen let's say. Now onGenerateRoute is reached
and therefore this function is executed
if you are going to a named route, with pushNamed, that is not registered in the routes table.
So if I would comment out the MealDetailScreen registration there and I comment out
onUnknownRoute to not get an error for the moment,
then we should actually see that when we try to go to the MealDetailScreen, so when we click a meal
here in the list of meals, we actually go to the categories screen because here I define that I want
to load this route for any route that's not registered in the routes screen
as long as we try to reach it through a named route. So if I now save this and I click on this item,
indeed I'm back on the category screen
and please note that I can go back now because I pushed this on top because that's when I return here
in onGenerateRoute.
We don't need onGenerateRoute in this application we're building here and in a lot of applications,
you might not need it.
It's still important to learn about it because onGenerateRoute of course gives you a lot of flexibility.
It gives you access to the settings of the route, so you can find out which arguments this route has
but you can also find out which name you pushed to for example and then you can use this information,
for example you could check if settings.name is equal to /meal-detail and then return a certain
MaterialPageRoute
in that case and if you have a different settings name, of course you could also use a switch statement
here,
then you could return different MaterialPageRoute here.
So that would be possible
and that again as I just said can be useful in scenarios where you build highly dynamic applications,
where you maybe have route names that are generated dynamically during the lifetime of your app and hence
you can't know them in advance when you're building the app or anything like that.
Then onGenerateRoute can be used in conjunction with pushNamed and so on to still handle the names
you're targeting or still do something for these named routes and run your own logic that returns
maybe always the same route or different routes depending on the route data.
As I said, we don't need it here because of course, we have no plans to comment out meal detail
screen and then this here is actually never reached. onUnknownRoute is also important,
onUnknownRoute also takes a function, an anonymous function here for example which gets settings
about the route it tried to load and which should return a route.
So just as up there, maybe in MaterialPageRoute which in the end builds the category screen. Now
onUnknownRoute is reached when Flutter failed to build a screen with all other measures.
So when you defined nothing as a root route, when you define nothing in the routes table overall,
if you don't use onGenerateRoute, then in the end as a last resort before it throws an error, Flutter
will try to use onUnknownRoute to show something on the screen.
So providing some fallback here, either a generic starting page or some we couldn't find that page error
page, showing something here is a good idea to make sure that your users never end up in a state where
the app just crashes but that you instead always show something on the screen. So it's like your
404 fallback page in the web. If you enter a URL in the web which doesn't exist,
most websites have a specific page they show to you where you see something like oh this page doesn't
exist,
well that is your fallback in a Flutter app here.
So providing this is never a bad idea
and here I will provide it with categories screen as a default.